---
layout: post
title: Project Proposal&#58; IDleg&#58; An Idaho Legislative Portal 
---

Homework 1

CS 597 Enterprise Web Development

Boise State

## Project Proposal

1. Project Title

    IDleg: A New Idaho Legislative Portal

2. What is it going to do?

    IDleg.info will use data from the [Sunlight Foundation Open State API](https://sunlightlabs.github.io/openstates-api/) and scraped data from the [Idaho Legislature](http://www.legislature.idaho.gov/) to present structured, searchable, sortable information about Idaho State 
politics. It will also:
    * add social functions to proposed legislation, allowing logged in users to present "testimony" on bills and respond to other user comments,
    * provide a toolbox for logged in users to save bills and other useful information,
    * offer basic statistics and summaries of bills, votes, etc., with data visualizations

3. What is the target audience?

    The target audience is engaged citizens and the media, including media organizations that need better access to this data.

4. What sort of data will it manage?

    The site will manage a large amount of legislative data including bills, votes and bill topics. Some of this data will come directly from the state legislature and some via API calls to the Sunlight Foundation’s existing legislative scrapers. We will have to determine which information to store and which information to access via API. Site user data will, of course, be stored securely, inlcuding user profiles and comments.

5. What web technologies will it use?

    Building on last semester's project, the IDleg site will be rewritten using a web framework -- probably Python Flask -- and the design will be refactored with Twitter Bootstrap. I want to add Oauth, so that users can authenticate and login with their Google, Twitter, Facebook and Github accounts. The pages will also include jquery, html, css. 

6. Stretch Goals?

    My main stretch goal is to offer my own API for any data that expands or adds value to the existing Sunlight API for Idaho legislative information. This could offer web services with the summary legislative stats, or allow users to access their own data on the site via API. The site could also be scalable to other states, could incorporate campaign finance and lobbyist expenditure data related to specific legislative topics, could link similar bills in different states to show outside influencers and could link legislative information to media, blog and social media postings on similar topics.
    
## Category Requirements

IDleg.info will be a website, hosted by Digital Ocean and available publicly on this github repository.

## Graduate Credit
This project is for graduate credit at Boise State, as part of my [Interdisciplinary MA in Data Journalism](http://www.paleomedia.org/2013/09/30/data-journalism/)